# 3D-modeling-of-Transmission-lines

The power is usually generated at remote locations from where it should reach/ connected to the end consumer due to the availability of sources such as coal for thermal generation, water for hydel generations etc., Hence, transmission system is required to transmit bulk power and cover larger distances from generating stations to electrical substations, which are further connected to distribution systems to reach the end consumer. For a giver power, line losses will be less for transmitting in higher voltages and lower currents. Therefore, voltages are stepped up at the generating stations and stepped down at local substations. Hence these lines are called as extra high voltage (EHV) transmission lines. And the combination of all interconnected lines is called as electrical grid. Usually in our country there are electrical grids of 765KV, 400KV, 220KV and 132KV out of which 765KV level is maintained by power grid (PGCIL) 400KV and 220KV are maintained both PGCIL and respective state transmission wings and 132KV is completely maintained by respective state transmission wings.

Visualization of this grid maps in geographical/topological form along with attributes of data such as real time power flow, amperage, power factor etc., helps in Increasing operational effectiveness, better emergency management, enables dynamic load management, scheduling and future planning(Bing et al., 2016). In this project, a sample 132KV Double circuit (DC) line from 132/33KV Adhoni Substation to 132/33KV Yemmiganuru Substation in Kurnool District of Andhra Pradesh state is visualized in 3D using blender as a platform.
